so meno uh
so happy to have you here uh we're gonna
talk a little bit today about
the overuse of carbohydrates which you
are an expert in and i think you wrote
the best paper i've ever read
on that subject also in case i forget uh
the science of self-control is your book
and uh just started it and it looks
totally rad also
uh
pretty much everybody i know
in
who's anywhere in nutrition space that
talks about
having to control your appetite has
recommended your book so your book is
like coming at me like in all directions
so happy to have you nice yeah and thank
you very much for the compliment yeah so
uh well you wrote for
it's awesome yeah both took a long time
but i'm really pleased with the results
and the reception so far
so
my first question
this was a meta-analysis was this your
first meta analysis
uh first systematic review that we
published we didn't run the stats on the
meta officially but we made it a full
systematic review sure i didn't think it
was worth using uh like actually going
into what's statistically significant
because the findings were so
overwhelming
that um
um for example for the
control of calories versus not uh a
clear finding was literally all of the
studies finding carbohydrates have
benefits for performance are not calorie
controlled so we cannot say whether it
was the calories
or the carbohydrates that really make
them perform better like all of them
so there isn't a single study literally
there isn't a single study high quality
study that's calorie control between
groups that finds that a higher
carbohydrate intake outperforms a lower
carbohydrate intake for strength
performance or muscle growth for that
matter
that's
shocking
yeah especially because there have been
numerous papers and this is also why i
wanted to write the review
numerous papers and i'm sure you know so
many experts many of them very well
intentioned well-read well-educated
that
recommend super high carbohydrate
intakes like in a literature you'll find
ranges up to 10 gram per kilogram
right which i'm about 95 kilogram
when bulking so 950 grams of
carbohydrates would be the
recommendation for me it's insane
exactly absolutely and you're gonna get
so fat eating that
yeah even half of that would be wildly
excessive
so right
i mean i i'd have trouble even fitting
that into my calories like that's 4 000
calories just from the carbs how do you
even fit that in your stomach through
the course of a day
yeah that too yeah well
i would i would manage but
sure but
it's um
and that that's what got me so excited
about your paper like
i had read so many things that advocated
for higher carbohydrate and then i come
across athletes all the time
that
they
they're really interested in eating high
carbohydrate mostly and also
let's be honest they're not excited
about eating more salads
yeah they they want dense carbohydrates
yeah always starches
yes so it's like you know they might
call that flexible or you know whatever
but it's like
you're just eating garbage and you're
gonna look like garbage and feel like
garbage
because that's not what your body needs
and so
when you came out with your paper just
the the small amount of carbohydrates
and high impact
that that can have
like you just really don't need that
much and in fact um
i mean if somebody wants to stay in
ketosis
they probably can and still eat that
small amount of carbohydrate now some
people don't care about that
some people think that's you know the
most powerful thing in the world and um
you know maybe but uh
well no it's not the most powerful thing
in the world it's a good thing from time
to time
uh so i
i really was excited about that now my
book weight lifting is a waste of time
um
that published a little over a year ago
and i did not have your reference when
when i re-edit this book i'm putting
your reference in there as opposed to
one
that's there and it said
something like i mean i had to just sort
of pick
something
and
the reason
i was looking to because
a little bit before i didn't
recommend really any carbohydrates i was
just kind of pure carnivore
but i realized that that's unrealistic
for most people they just don't want to
do it
yeah uh and so you know how
if a diet is so good nobody will do it
it's not good at all
so ultimately like and i mean hey how
many physicians have you talked to is
just like compliance like if the drug
gives you heartburn or the pill gives
you heartburn
patient's not gonna take it
so
you know we got to find another way
and that's part of the that was my like
uh
one of my initial experiences in medical
device industry people didn't want to
take bisphosphonate drugs for their uh
bone density
losses because they had some pretty bad
side effects and then they came up with
an injectable version and people still
didn't feel very well
and uh so there's an opportunity there
to have a physical medicine intervention
which is what i developed doesn't mean
it's osteo strong it's my first thing
so um
[Music]
i just just really going back and
looking at what do we actually need
and oh and
i wanted to recommend some carbohydrates
just for practicality so people will
follow it
but also uh if we're to induce
hyperplasia so
like i have people doing something
that's a you know
vasodilation type property so they can
take epimedium if they don't want to
have a prescription
for uh you know like like viagra or
cialis or something like that
um
because most people don't want to bother
to get a prescription but there are
vasodilators out there nitrous oxides
another one of them
so
[Music]
they would do that then they would
ingest
you know i had like uh half their body
weight and grams of carbohydrate
and then do a workout so they really
over hydrate the muscle and then they
stretch
and so there's a
few studies that suggest that this is
gonna cause
uh muscle cells to split and people have
had some um uh let's see it was uh jose
antonio professor jose antonio that that
was his dissertation
and uh and so i followed along with that
and recommended sort all these things
together but
i would always feel like garbage when i
had that much carbohydrate
like you'd think
based on what we you know people tell us
oh carbohydrates are energy
um
yeah
maybe but i mean i know when i'm
accustomed to not having a lot of
carbohydrates
then i do it pre-workout i feel awful i
have the worst workout ever
but if i have maybe different forms of
glucose tablets
i feel great
but it's not much
and so yeah your paper was like
man this is what i needed to see because
this just hadn't really been shown yet
and some of those what we recommend our
paper
yeah yeah i mean i recommend your paper
to everybody and uh yeah i think i think
that is
probably going to be at least my like
position stand on on that subject
because
it just doesn't make you feel like crap
also it's not going to affect
triglycerides very much
so some of these people
who are dieting
they've got higher low density
lipoprotein
you know in fact the highest your ldl
goes is when you're fasting
or just burning body fat even through a
caloric deficit
no because you're using fat as fuel so
the the ldl goes up
but then when you also have high
triglycerides that's like a recipe for a
stroke
so because like what happens is these
people they're trying to lose a bunch of
body fat and then
[Music]
let's say they decide to have like a
cheat meal or whatever and it's just
massive
carbohydrates like wow like i i don't
think that's a great idea i think you
could actually be like
on the edge of
triggering a stroke maybe i'm
overreactive about that but i know that
following your recommendation no one's
going to have an issue with that
i think
the um
our recommendations are pretty similar
in the sense that we do recommend some
carbs because it's it's more to be safe
than story and also practical so um yeah
in the paper we recommend 15 gram net
carbs uh pre-workout which is not much
you know that's very easy too and it
doesn't even have to be like glucose
tablets a lot of people always like go
to these things and it can definitely
work um
but it can even be fruit vegetables sure
um
like
anything that's uh in my book i
recommend a job
yeah
because everybody can find rice i don't
care where the hell you are pretty much
it'll pretty much end up as glucose
anyway in the body that's right
yeah that's kind of what i was going for
and then you know for the people who are
really concerned about oxalates like
rice really doesn't have that there's
not a lot of
anti-nutrients in rice so i feel like
that's yeah there's interesting research
that white rice actually results in
higher protein balance than uh whole
grain rice and that's likely because of
the anti-nutrients that reduce the
protein absorption that's right yeah
yeah i i didn't know what to make of
that study and i didn't know whether to
like
post it to the fans because it's like am
i just going to confuse everybody here
sometimes like it's like
something really important but if i say
rice people are like okay it's rice but
then if i go into the weeds and explain
it's like am i just gonna like have
people look at all this stuff and go
[__] it i'll just go buy weight gainer
yeah i mean you don't need price you
don't need weight gainer it can be uh no
yeah oh weight gainer's horrible i don't
even know why they still make that
because people buy it people can sell
them
you can sell people the biggest crap for
the price of steak and you call it
weight gainer and
yeah it's uh absolute tragedy
what is sold in uh in nutrition space um
now one thing um
so i got a a little bit different take
on intermittent fasting
than i think some so
i tell people
there may not be any magic as far as the
energy deficit energy deficit may be the
same
um
now i think there's a curveball when it
comes to dry fasting
because like my my calories my basal
metabolic rate plus activity is 3 300
or at least that's as good as the
calculator is going to give me i mean
who knows how right that is
but it's probably right around there
um
i think that
when you
you can get aggressive
with uh with with a deficit
with a couple of fasted days
right like like a like let's say i want
to go three and a half days fasted and
then eat maintenance calories the rest
of the week
well a 50 energy restriction over the
course of a week if you try to do that
every day
you'd have a metabolic adaptation which
means weight loss would stop working
after a period of time
but you would feel horrible
but
when you're fasted you're not hungry so
i
i go i do 72 hours i don't do three and
a half days um but i do 72 hours dry
fasted
uh when i want to drop body fat and like
that's
awesome
but i also think a lot of people
misunderstood my last post on
fasting to me like fasting doesn't work
and
it's the fact that the study doesn't say
fasting doesn't work the study says it
works because it induces an energy
deficit sure
exactly it's um
i want to dispel the notion that it's
magical in that regard or that you have
to fast
right right it's a yeah if you prefer
calorie deficit before a more you know
normal every day
than
which some people would
especially like like the dry fasting is
great but if you work outside in the
heat
no you cannot do dry fasting yeah that
will not be burnt
no i i tell everybody like if you if you
even get hot at your office
don't don't drive fast you know drive
fast over the weekends or something like
that
um there's a study i'm sure you've read
this one um
a couple of
it was done in germany
by a couple of germans and greeks
and uh the name just not coming to me
right now but it's a greek name so i
probably ruined it anyway
um
but uh they did five-day dry fasts
and uh there was a follow-up study where
they replicated it
that's a long fast
especially with no liquids
yeah
and um
funny thing like after a day you just
don't even think about it i'm actually
dry fasted uh
let's see about 60 hours right now
ah i'm fine i'm fine
and you know i noticed little things
like uh you know the level of hydration
like my hands don't look as vascular as
i normally do whatever
um but uh
i did this the first time i did it
measured um the volume of my urine each
day
same amount of urine every day
sorry same amount of urine every day
that's interesting yeah yeah well it's
because i'm taking the water from our
only non-vascular tissue that we drag
around
so um
it works
really well but
what what i think the mistake people are
making is they're trying to get away
with tiny fasts that don't really do
anything
and then they go and eat too much
so it's like
yeah i mean if if your
your metabolic rate plus activities like
me like 3 300
and you just eat 3 300 calories at the
end of the day
and you skip the first two meals like
you did nothing
yeah that's what most people have with
ramadan where
they yeah oh and they eat they're like
crazy at night and it's like man
yeah most people end up maintaining
which is actually still
um surprising considering how much junk
they eat and they still maintain their
their body composition
right well
yeah it's uh they only have a certain
window to be able to eat so the sun yeah
exactly so
they do a lot more
in short time
northern living
muslims like if you're a muslim you live
in london
your ramadan day is quite a bit shorter
than it is in the least
because you know it's different
hemispheres different sunlight and so
they sometimes only have like a couple
hours to eat before they got to go to
bed
and
they're doing better because they don't
have so much time to eat all the junk
food they
they want to get in the middle of the
night
yeah i think that's um
well i mean let's face it they're not
doing it for health
they're doing it for the religious
experience and you know hey they've
given us more fasting data than anybody
else because you know it's like one and
a half billion muslims do it every year
and uh you know people aren't getting
hurt by it so
you know i i
i lean on that quite a bit i got a lot
of great references
from some middle eastern journals now of
course the middle eastern journals don't
have the same standards
that like
you know the western journals do but
they're getting better
and then every once in a while you see
something in a western journal you're
like wow like who was on the peer review
team for that
um
yeah i asked myself that question a lot
i'm sure you do too
no
yeah like uh some of the have you
noticed like
how much now it's because of coronavirus
but we have a lot more research about
just airborne viruses
and
it's like if you write a paper about an
airborne virus and you pick the wrong
statistical test
i don't think anyone cares it's just
like it's getting published because each
journal wants the maximum amount of
content about that
and so the paper quality has just gone
down
have you noticed that at all
kinda i'm not an expert on viruses but
um i do notice
anything i noticed is that uh there was
a big slump in uh research i mean my own
um paper that was
almost finished we're actually doing a
study on fast training and fasting as
well
and um
with andy gelpin
and
the last cohort
was
like in the last weeks of being done and
then the corona pandemic hit and the
lockdowns and everything and completely
messed it up completely confounded
everything because everyone you know
couldn't train anymore their whole
schedules changed
so now we're still trying to
rerun that cohort
so that completely messed up our study
and i know from a lot of people that's
happened so there's also been
actually a downside that is often not
discussed of the pandemic and the
lockdowns is the damage you did the
research because it messed up so much
research sure oh anything that was at a
university now all of a sudden people
can't go to the university
yep yeah i i had that challenge also
there's a couple things that i'm trying
to have done and
you know when they close the university
it's like
it's never like
you know
the sports performance
department the nutrition department the
endocrinology department
they don't call and say yeah i don't do
that they just have to do it yeah so
yeah
that was annoying
well
now we have you been in portugal the
entire time during coronavirus
no no
mostly in
brazil and mexico but i've had four
lockdowns in various countries
yeah
we won't think it's all the way out
so we won't talk about the research on
lockdowns
the uh
what like when you finish that meta
analysis or the systematic review
was there anything that you wished you
had got in there
that i mean like like you said
there are no metrics on whether like
what the calorie controls were
and so like that's like a
gigantic question mark but you couldn't
do anything about it
yeah i mean i think the the fact that
it's still overwhelmingly in favor
against carbs
so no matter how you look at the
research no matter which category we
looked at which time frame the majority
of studies found no beneficial effects
on higher carbohydrates
and then
you're looking at a few categories where
i think there there could be
an actual influence of carbs not just a
psychological one but an actual one
and that's basically people are trained
twice a day people that uh athletes that
do endurance and strength training yeah
um
people that do more than 10 sets per
muscle group per session which is
interestingly if you do like the the
more bro kind of workouts old-school
splits
um then actually you might need the
carbs a little bit it's not a big
difference but it might have
an effect
again though in the only
calorie controlled study by mitchell at
all they found no effect even up to 15
sets for one muscle group
so
it's uh
but it's not a category i'm particularly
interested in because i'm i'm generally
a proponent of higher frequency training
yeah i mean either so like yeah i don't
get any clients they recover
yeah i don't have my clients do uh like
15 plus sets per muscle group per
session anyway so
yeah
that's even higher volume than i go
um more than that we talk about but
yeah part of that reason so
so like
if someone wants to be low carbohydrate
um
you know they do uh
20 minute weight workouts six days a
week
you talk about replenishing glycogen in
pretty much the first i think you
mentioned
fit like 15 grams can
of
let's say glucose or
a carbohydrate that's going to convert
into glucose
um
you're
you're really kind of there
yeah is that correct
yeah i think so because
we have three direct studies on sort of
the dose response and overall in the
literature
um
it's very clear there's no those
response effects which is a big red flag
right the idea is that you need the
carbs for energy and therefore you would
expect that the more carbs you need the
more energy you have just the more the
better you perform but it doesn't pan
out that way at all like there is no
dose response effect in the literature
and it's because you typically just
don't deplete enough glycogen during
your workouts the highest reported value
in the entire literature and there's a
lot of papers it's 41 percent
and
so in one session you you're almost
never going to burn for all of your
advantage now maybe if you're going into
the you know being plus set range then
you might deplete glycogen levels enough
in some of your type 2 muscle fibers
but again i think that's not a category
people shouldn't try any way so right
it's not super practical
and then afterwards
if you look at the values of glycogen
re-synthesis which can occur from the
the glycerol backbone of triglycerides
or via the quarry cycle
where the lactate the pump
that you get during workouts there's a
lot of lactate production it can
effectively be recycled back to glucose
so the body has very effective
mechanisms in place to resynthesize
glycogen
without actually needing dietary
carbohydrates sure and then if you look
at the levels that glycogen re-synthesis
occurs in people that are even fasted
like completely fasted
it's still within the range where you
say oh look after a normal workout this
would take about 24 hours to recover so
even if you're training a muscle every
day which i do in some high frequency
programs
it's still there still completely
synthesis
and that's why if you look at the
studies the longer term studies actually
the evidence became more and more
convincing like the longer the time
frame you look at
in the in research studies the more
convincing the evidence is there's no
effect whatsoever i think in our long
term category of studies up to three
months
which is about as long as most of these
studies go when sure because you
typically have college athletes and
whatever it's um
i think it was 17 studies 15 found no
benefit and then it was actually one to
one one found the benefits of higher
carbs and one actually favored lower
carbs so
cancel that out it's basically a
complete wash like no evidence for
uh in favor of carbohydrate insects
then i know
sorry i
got a little allergy problem here um
i live in california we got a lot of
plants and they make a lot of pollen um
so
god that's such a breath of fresh air
because so many people
who i mean really they just want to eat
you know candy
like and whatever like like i all the
time somebody will
just this morning somebody posted like a
on the on our forum the x3 users group
forum they posted some about like donuts
like
last thing i would eat what
you know and the problem the problem
with the donut isn't just if you want to
have one donut can you have one donut i
suppose but then
you're going to want
to eat the rest of them too you're not
going to want anyone
and it's just you know switches your
your insulin on in a way it's so uh
upregulated so quickly that you you lose
control and that's that's when people
that's yeah that's exactly what i talk
about in my book actually where people
think they have a very naive notional
food cravings where they feel like if
you eat a little bit the thing is gone
but actually it's the opposite best way
to kill a craving is to starve it like
you don't eat something and then the
craving disappears so research is super
super clear on this that people that eat
low carb for example they lose their
carb cravings because they never eat
them
whereas if you eat a carb and it doesn't
matter how much you eat that's another
interesting finding if you eat one donut
or you eat 10 donuts the increase in
cravings for donuts is actually the same
because it's not about the physical
process of of consuming it
it's about the fact that you triggered a
mental representation you're now
thinking of donuts again you re-trigger
the taste of donuts so
next time you think of what to eat
donuts come up whereas if you never have
donuts for you for example if you think
about what to eat it's not like you're
gonna think oh shall i eat a donut no it
doesn't even cross your mind because you
never eat it
yeah i tell people like don't look at
that as food
like that's not food that's that's
designed to be addictive
now i'm like uh here's another question
this may actually be i just thought it
was this maybe one of the more important
ones
how addictive are carbohydrates by
comparison to let's say some
recreational drugs so there's some
literature out there
i posted one on
just a study on instagram that showed
that sugar
has many of the similar addictive
properties
and um the the compliance with avoiding
is about as bad between cocaine and um
and carbohydrates
and then i got a lot of
angry people coming i mean and you know
how dare you like you know eating an
apple is not the same as
it's like all right well an apple in a
doughnut are not the same either
yeah so a big difference there i mean
there's that
but um
what do you what do you think about
those those addictive properties is that
is that accurate or is there
well i mean i studied psychology so i i
generally stick to the very narrow
notion of an addiction in terms of
as that's what occurs with cocaine with
dope with dopamine descendants and
decreased serotonin levels and that
doesn't occur with food so i'd say that
there's actually no food that's
addictive in the strict medical sense
but we can reinforcing value and
there was a recent study
that actually found that carbohydrates
have greater reinforcing value and
um influence the brain reward pathways
more than fats
um but overall
i think it's more about palliative
ability
i think
starches because when we're talking
about carbs right and you already say
like big difference between apple and
donuts i think nobody gets addicted to
you know cauliflower or right or even
apples for that matter so more about the
palatability where starches are just so
palatable that people want to eat them
and
they generally have low self control
um and they were not they're not capable
of managing their self-control
which is much more important than having
it i think
and as a result
they're constantly eating starches
so
i wouldn't say they're addictive but
they are very easy to overeat on
everybody likes them they're very easy
to eat and
i noticed it as well after a long period
of having basically no starch at all i
started having some starches again
and
i i found out that i was sort of craving
them even though i didn't like them like
as a kid already i thought i don't
really get why people eat pasta because
like pasta itself has barely any taste
right right right it's almost like just
plain rice plain pasta exactly it's like
cardboard um i mean if you cook it well
and everything has a little bit of taste
but not much not like meat yeah it's
usually the meat sauce
exactly
so it doesn't even taste good on its own
it's mostly sort of the texture
and i don't know just so very easy to
eat yeah just hyperpalatable
uh so i think that's the issue mostly
i like that
right like certain things
i know when people switch over to a more
kind of carnivore type nutrition
they really miss crunchy stuff
yeah food grocery shop is a tough one
it is because there's really nothing you
can say
exactly
it's um crunchy by definition means
super calorically dense because crunchy
means it's the void of all fluids
so you basically you're left with pure
energy
so the if people say i want something
crunchy then the it's basically
natural that nutritional crunching
includes like you know
uh cruciferous vegetables or something
which are also you know crunchy but
they're more like watery crunchy
then you're you're pretty much out of
luck and the only way to get over that
is not to have crunchy stuff anymore
because it's it's unnatural like crunchy
stuff doesn't really exist in nature
like maybe nuts are as close as it gets
or like like i said certain vegetables
right so
like the processed crap that we now have
in supermarkets and everything yeah um
it's completely unnatural so there's the
right way to
tell people like yeah you know you can
have crunchy stuff um
and um eat as much as you want it's
going to be healthy or whatever
well
what i notice is like people go for
you know health bars that are made out
of like nuts
that are compressed together with you
know they say it's honey but it's not
sticky so it's really like one percent
honey and 99 caramel
you know so it's just like
just a sugar
yeah it's like that's that's not good
for you don't don't be fooled just
because
you know it says nature on the package
no
yeah even even the protein bars and also
the issue is
um
like it kind of defeats the point of um
unless you're consuming it for the
energy like if you're a high level
athlete or something and you just need
you need the calories
but for most people the issue is when
you're bringing up somewhere to eat you
is you want to satiate yourself
so that you're not hungry
but those parts don't do it at all
and protein bars actually have the same
issue where with a protein bar
um if they're if they're nice protein
bars you can eat 10 and then you still
overeat yeah and if you're not nice
protein bars then you ate something that
you didn't like which wasn't healthy
because most protein bars are also crap
yeah and then
you
uh yeah you got your protein in okay
great but you're still hungry
so
good chance we're still gonna overeat
yeah
yeah wow
i mean a lot of protein powders
you know they put like what they call a
minimal amount of carbohydrates but then
you look at the package and it's like
how's that minimal
i was like that ain't chicken
40 grams of sugar in one serving you
know like
that's not minimal like you went out of
your way to put
as much in there
and uh here's another problem i run into
is
a lot of people think supplements should
taste like candy
yeah i mean if you have a
[Music]
high quality protein like i one of the
one of the products that i i manufacture
and sell is
it's called fortigen it's an essential
amino acid
uh
[Music]
you know sort of map ratio uh
you know it's
a little bit sweetened with stevia
um
it doesn't taste
like a delicious dessert you'd have at a
fancy restaurant
yeah it doesn't taste bad either but
i noticed that people really want
everything to taste
you know like like candy and uh
boy that's just the wrong mentality
i think
yeah it's funny with caffeine i
recommend anhydrous caffeine to a lot of
people because it's super cheap it's
very
like pure caffeine basically and hybrids
caffeine and um
it's in research the most effective way
to ingest caffeine like to enhance
performance it's more effective than
coffee or other forms
okay
and
but people really don't like it um you
can have it in pills but if you even get
the pill half open or i use powder
because it's then it's literally like
free
and
you do need to dose it accurately but
you know you use a small spoon or
whatever measuring skill
and um
the the thing is it's disgusting it's
like it's not just bad it's absolutely
disgusting and it makes you wonder
say caffeinated caffeine is so much
better than caffeinated caffeine because
if you taste pure caffeine
it is really bad like worse than
paracetamol
it's like
a level of bitter that
does not exist in nature
whoa okay
now how many how many uh i mean i don't
know if it's equivalent to you know what
we would drink like
i um i went caffeine free for about six
months and then reintroduced
and i'll have maybe like 100 milligrams
of caffeine in the morning i recommend
the same
yeah yeah because once you desensitize
and reintroduce it just a tiny bit does
exactly what a lot used to do
yeah
yeah yeah so it's a real small the vast
majority of people are massively
like alcohol actually like medical terms
most people or many people are
alcoholics and a lot of people are um
addicted to caffeine and
um
or again a caffeine addiction is again a
little bit fake but you have to withdraw
symptoms afterwards if they don't take
it and there's a big tolerance
so tolerance overthrow are typically
characterized as two big symptoms of
actual addiction
but then nobody wants to hear that you
know
and it's in caffeine it's
probably as as benign as it gets for an
addiction
so
it's uh it's not as big of a problem as
you know other types of addictions
but still i think a lot of people would
be better off
moderating their consumption a lot more
using it strategically rather than just
living out of it
yeah yeah it's it's it's something that
if you use it when you need it
it's wonderful if you just use it all
the time
then it's
really not doing much
yeah that's another thing with
supplement mentality where people have
um so i'm a proponent of fenibat for
example i think it's uh useful to reduce
anxiety one of the few supplements it's
still supplements uh it's it's basically
a drug but it's still characterized as a
supplement in many places
although increasingly harder to get but
it actually works like it decreases
anxiety
and
then people ask me like okay like
how much can i take do i just take it
every day it's like
no it's a drug like when do you take it
when do you take an anxiety lowering
drug
less anxiety yeah exactly like if you're
going public speaking maybe you want a
little bit more but if you're just going
to sit home on the couch watch netflix
you should not need an anxiety lowering
drug you know also netflix gives you
anxiety
you might you might need to talk with it
yeah
supposed to be entertainment
yeah uh we got an anxiety problem in
society now too
and well after cove we have a lot of
mental health issues i think the
statistics show that over 50 of the
population uh had what are
psychologically significant mental
health issues not passion but
a lot of people had uh loneliness and a
lot of issues
wow
how do people come out of that
well no more lockdowns that definitely
helps
yeah but um yeah just getting back into
your normal life uh mainly
people need to be around other people
like
i mean psychology is not my field but
i have read that very many times like
you can't yeah it's literal it's one of
the most shocking findings was in uh
world war ii i think it was they did
experiments photography was the nazis or
other researchers
probably the nazis they had a crowd on
babies
where
they didn't give them any human
attention
they just
you know they made sure they were well
fed they basically have them raised by
robots
and the majority of those babies died
like they flat out died
and that's yeah that sounds like finding
right i don't think the allies
yeah
but that's an insane finding right it's
like
human beings or at least babies die
despite being amply physically taken
care of
just because they are
they lack any social
uh stimulus
that's crazy
that is crazy
damn
when you think about when they put like
prisoners in solitary confinement
i read one of those papers it just
seemed like it would be interesting to
me
and
those people were just tortured
like apparently that's the worst thing
you can do to somebody
like as far as i can
yeah
very interesting
i uh
during coronavirus
people were using their x3s at home
and um
and you know they still didn't have that
social interaction
because it's like
you know they didn't have to go to the
gym because they had an x3 at home which
is great
but they still need it so
i think some of them started getting
together and doing x3 together like two
or three guys you know one one guy's
house
so i think that helps that was a
a thing that was discussed on the
discussion board but of course i didn't
want to become too popular of a subject
because it's like what's facebook going
to shut me down for that
uh
you know
just sort of an interesting thing you
got to be careful like you sometimes you
don't know about breaking the rules
because they just decided to make a new
rule based on what they saw you were
doing
um yeah i guess they could they're like
yeah you're promoting social gatherings
uh yeah right like i didn't i didn't
want anyone to like
accuse you know that but it it did not
end up being
[Music]
that big of a problem because there was
always somebody who was like having a
concert
you know or you know something really
egregious so i was like that that was
the that was the things that people were
complaining about they weren't
complaining about including government
officials in every possible country
yeah it's great when you see the
officials like not wearing masks at a
social gathering right in the middle of
the pandemic
yeah yeah
it was uh very embarrassing for them or
at least it should have been
um
and it was pretty much the same like
worldwide
like governments everywhere
in sao paulo where i was at the time for
i think it was christmas and
uh new year
the governor
locked up the state
and people joked like most people lock
up their home before they leave and he
locks up the state and then he went to
miami
without a lockdown and he just went
there to have a holiday
wow
yeah so he's probably not going to get
reelected
well
unfortunately
i'm not sure about that he might act
there's actually even a chance he could
become president
um it's just people forget quickly and
uh many people
yeah it depends what you know the
popular news channels show because
yeah you know
cnn and everything if you there are lots
of things that happen they they would
just never even cover
oh okay yeah it's just like cnn here
yeah yeah like very selective coverage
depends on who they like
you know they don't like them
you know like if trump did that it would
be like front page
yeah paper but if yeah somebody else did
that that they like it's like didn't
happen
yeah
um
well this is great man i mean i i got
all my uh my questions
answered um
i gotta i gotta send you a copy of
weightlifting's waste of time
uh i'm reading your book
uh so i i
i feel like i'm gonna have a lot of
questions maybe we can do this again i
can like write down a bunch of questions
about
what i what i get from from your book
and i'll send you mine i'm i'm sure
you'll have
a lot of stuff i i well you're familiar
with variable resistance so this is not
going to be like a big curveball
and also i try and point out like the
the title
was meant to really get people's
attention
weightlifting is a waste of time like
hundreds of thousands of people bought
the book if i had called it like the x3
method or something like
nobody would have bought it it's just
like what's that i don't care um
so
uh the graphic
on your the cover of your book
is
that kind of
good marketing like it's it's an
elephant i wish i had the copy of the
book it's out of my place um but you
know there's like the the teeter-totter
where there's an elephant
and then uh a brain on the other end
and so you know
it's like
you know we gotta get this the brain's
having here in the elephants is the uh
the metaphor
is to say that you know you're
you can
like being smarter is more important
than being strong which is a big part of
the book which is showing research even
that
it's not about having self-control and
having a lot of discipline it's much
more about being smart with it and not
having to rely on it
yeah if you look for example more
successful students or general people
that are more successful in life they
rely less on self-control even if they
have more self-control
so they just avoid temptations rather
than
like with what we talked about with
carbs um if you you're prone to
find certain carbs hyperpalatable and
they don't fit your diet
then it's easier actually not to eat
them often
and consciously decide like these foods
are not worth it for me than to
occasionally have them because then you
always have the temptation and if
they're in your cupboard and if you're
hungry you're going to the supermarket
those kind of things you know that's how
you you end up buying it if you end up
buying it you're going to end up eating
it right
like i have um
when you go to my house like all that's
in
the refrigerator like i don't keep meat
very long because i
eat it quick boom it's just just steak
i don't really have anything else um
you know i have
beef stock if i'm gonna do uh like rice
because i'll
oh cook the rice and the beef stock
that's an amazing flavor and i get a
little bit of rice
um
i do that right after a workout if i
don't do the pre-workout carbohydrates
but like
that's like it like i don't have snack
foods because
i'd eat them
yeah yes they might have a total
bodybuilder uh fridge like only a few
food items more variety than just meat
but
um just a few food items and then lots
of oil and then tupperware containers
with prepped foods
yup
yeah that's perfect i love it
all right man well thanks uh i'll i'm
i'm gonna be in touch about the book and
let's do this again this was fun sure my
pleasure let's [__] you in all right
all right thank you
thank you awesome all right have a good
day